---
title: The CCP and its Overseas United Front
slug: overseasunitedfront
order: 4
---
In order to understand the transnational repression that took place in San Francisco, it is important to understand the network of organizations that enabled the repression and appeared to coordinate in organizing it.

The CCP puts enormous effort and resources into exerting influence and control over what it considers to be Chinese diaspora communities around the world, including not just Chinese immigrants and their families but also Hong Kongers, Tibetans, Uyghurs, and Taiwanese living abroad.

These efforts to control diaspora communities are closely tied to the CCP concept of the “united front” (統一戰線), the idea that the cultivation of support of and loyalty to the Party at home and abroad is central to maintaining the CCP’s power. To that end, the CCP employs both a set of directly-controlled party organs and also a larger number of loosely linked overseas groups to carry out its united front strategy. In practice, the term “united front work” (統戰工作) is used rather elastically and can refer to activities carried by both official agencies and informally associated overseas groups.[^2]

### United Front: main organs and overseas affiliates

Though these types of organizations are often grouped together as part of a loosely-defined “CCP United Front,” this report takes care to differentiate between the two:

Specifically, this report uses the term “United Front” (capitalized) to denote organizations which are constituent parts of the Chinese Communist Party, fully folded into Party infrastructure and directly controlled and operated by CCP authorities. On the other hand, the report uses the term “united front groups” (lower-case letters) to describe overseas groups which may not necessarily have formal ties with the CCP and its United Front agencies, but are often used to carry out the CCP’s agenda. 

The United Front Work Department (中共中央統一戰線工作部/UFWD) is the CCP organ formally in charge of the CCP’s united front strategy. Its work is supplemented by that of the All-China Federation of Returned Overseas Chinese (中華全國歸國華僑聯合會/ACFROC), a key United Front organization which in 2018 was designated by the CCP as the main organ responsible for relations with overseas Chinese[^3]. The ACFROC maintains provincial and municipal offices within the PRC, which help maintain relations with Chinese expatriates from these localities. This report documents several connections between members of united front groups and local ACFROC offices.





PRC embassies and consulates also play a key role in cultivating united front groups overseas, often providing them with guidance and direction at key junctures. This report documents many instances in which key figures in united front groups met with or participated in events together with high-ranking PRC consulate officials.

Typically, CCP officials overseeing united front groups prefer for them to preserve a facade of autonomy from CCP United Front organs like the UFWD and ACFROC, as well as PRC consulates. As noted by Anne-Marie Brady, an academic and expert on the overseas United Front, the CCP “wants to avoid being seen to ‘lead’ [領導] the overseas Chinese community, but rather prefers to be seen to ‘guide’ [引導] them. [^4]”

In actuality, however, united front groups rarely if ever deviate from the CCP’s official stance on any matter. Generally speaking, CCP United Front officials strive to create a situation where overseas united front groups will know the Party’s will and do the Party’s bidding without requiring official direction or supervision. Brady notes that “The goal of successful overseas Chinese work is to get the community to proactively and even better, spontaneously, engage in activities which enhance China’s foreign policy agenda.[^5]”

Because of this strategy, civic organizations in diaspora communities may have united front links. Typically, united front groups may take the form of hometown associations, business associations, Chinese Students and Scholars Association chapters at foreign universities, or associations for the so-called “peaceful reunification of China” (the CCP’s preferred term for its efforts to bring Taiwan under CCP rule). Groups of this nature tend to display strong signs of united front links, and often have members which maintain close communication with CCP United Front organs and appear at public events with PRC officials.

These groups also often seek to cultivate relations with politicians and officials–especially local politicians and officials–in the countries in which they operate, claiming to broadly represent the political views and concerns of the “Chinese community” or even the “Asian community,” crowding out a far more diverse representation of voices, especially those with views different from the CCP’s. In the US, local politicians and officials often meet these united front groups without appearing to be aware of their links to the CCP. These types of organizations appear frequently in this report, as they and their leaders were present on the streets of San Francisco during Xi Jinping’s visit.

Additionally, many Chinese-language media outlets which are widely read in diaspora communities are nowadays controlled to one extent or another by the CCP or by businesses and interests loyal to the CCP[^6]. As such, they too may be considered to be part of a broader united front strategy. Much of the information about united front groups found in this report comes from pro-CCP Chinese-language diaspora media.

United Front: understanding its goals through the 1989 Tiananmen Massacre, 2008 Beijing Olympics, and 2019 Hong Kong pro-democracy protests

While CCP efforts to cultivate the loyalty of overseas Chinese to the regime date back to the founding of the PRC in 1949 and even before, the current objectives of CCP united front work are multifaceted. The development of these new objectives can be traced to the 1989 Tiananmen Massacre, which marked a turning point in CCP relations with the diaspora. 

In 1989, many overseas Chinese were shocked and outraged by the Tiananmen Massacre on June 4. The CCP realized it had a significant problem on its hands: criticism and doubts about the regime’s legitimacy were widespread at home and abroad. The political crisis led the CCP to increase its efforts to cultivate the loyalty of groups in Chinese-origin communities abroad, with the goal of securing the CCP’s political power among overseas Chinese.

The 1990s in particular but also the following decades have been a boom time for the development of the united front in the US. This development coincided with increased migration from the PRC to the US and a large increase in the number of Chinese students at US universities. Recent migrants and Chinese students became the main targets of united front work and often the main groups tasked with carrying it out. The PRC also experienced rapid economic growth in this period, allowing the CCP to exert greater influence around the world, including on diaspora communities.

While the earlier model of united front work focused on securing the CCP’s political power and exerting the CCP’s influence, the united front work this report examines in San Francisco includes a broader range of goals, including astroturfing public support for the CCP in the United states and neutralizing public displays of opposition.

These objectives of CCP united front work have been observed as far back as the 2008 global Olympic torch relay[^7]. The CCP considered the Beijing Olympics of 2008 as China’s grand coming-out to the world, and its global Olympic torch relay the glorious prologue. Therefore, when large numbers of protesters turned out during early stops on the torch’s tour and seriously damaged the effectiveness of the propaganda campaign, the CCP rapidly mobilized united front groups in Australia and Japan to ensure the same didn’t happen in those places. The torch relay in San Francisco was also targeted for united front mobilization. These mobilized united front groups gathered to display overseas support for CCP leadership, and to identify, manage and neutralize any signs of opposition to CCP leaders and policies (i.e. protests).

The CCP regarded these efforts as so successful that they still act as the template used for overseas public events that the CCP considers to be related to its core interests such as foreign visits of top Party leaders and sovereignty over East Turkestan, Hong Kong, Taiwan and Tibet.

It is important to the CCP to hide its controlling hand in mobilization of overseas support. For the global Olympic torch relay stops in Australia and Japan in 2008, CCP officials and their agents initially boasted of their mobilization efforts, but when the Party began to perceive an international media backlash amid accusations of “rent-a-crowds,” it did what scholar James Jiann Hua To referred to as a “public ‘about face’ on openly supporting” these groups. Consequently, according to To, Chinese state media reports “emphasized that students had mobilized themselves and established the rallies at their own will,” and statements by PRC officials either “denied any involvement or deflected questions surrounding the embassies’ provocation of [overseas Chinese] nationalism. Furthermore, student groups were instructed to deny any links between the rallies and the embassy….[^8]” Since then, the same denial has followed countless welcoming parades and events.

The mass protests in Hong Kong in 2019 were another moment when the CCP felt its political leadership challenged and threatened, not just in Hong Kong but globally. Hong Kongers around the world showed support for the protests, with demonstrations in dozens of cities. The CCP mobilized the united front to counter these protests. According to a report by Alliance Canada Hong Kong, threats against and harassment of Hong Kong demonstrators were reported in 25 cities worldwide, including in Australia, New Zealand, Japan, Germany, Denmark, France, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Canada and the US[^9].

This report describes a repeating pattern of attacks on protesters during Xi Jinping’s 2023 visit to San Francisco. This pattern is defined by the following aspects:

1) United front groups and figures involved in the CCP-supporting and counter-protest efforts are non-state actors. While their exact relation to the CCP as an institution may be somewhat vague or unclear, they are not formally, openly or explicitly incorporated into Party structures. In other words, the CCP is effectively “outsourcing” repressive actions. 

2) Nevertheless, there are clear and well-documented connections between (i) the state organs of the PRC such as embassies and consulates, (ii) United Front organs that are formal parts of CCP infrastructure in the PRC, and (iii) overseas united front groups that are informally connected to the party structure. 

It is worth noting that while the pro-CCP public assemblies “welcoming Xi” were intended to present a peaceful face of “patriotic” support for China and for good relations between China and the US, in fact their motives also involved neutralizing any manifestation of opposition to Xi or the CCP. The strong motive to neutralize dissent has led to repressive actions not short of harassment, intimidation and assault, and as such, resulted in acts of transnational repression.

### Attacks on protesters as a form of transnational repression.
While many different forms of CCP TNR against Chinese, Hong Kongers, Tibetans and Uyghurs have been documented, attacks on protesters at public events is a particular form of CCP TNR that has received relatively little attention, a gap which this report seeks to fill. 

There is copious documentation of CCP transnational repression targeting diaspora communities, to which the protesters who were attacked in San Francisco belong. Cases of TNR against Hong Kongers include not only the harassment and intimidation at the 2019 global solidarity protests mentioned above but also the arrest warrants and bounties issued for exiled Hong Kongers in 2023 (for more on that, see below), and the extraordinary assault on a Hong Kong protester by Chinese consulate staff in Manchester, England in October 2022[^10]. Tibetans and Uyghurs in the diaspora have also been targeted for TNR, as recent detailed reports have shown[^11].

Freedom House, which monitors transnational repression worldwide, notes, “China conducts the most sophisticated, global, and comprehensive campaign of transnational repression in the world. Efforts by the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) to pressure and control the overseas population of Chinese and members of minority communities are marked by three distinctive characteristics. First, the campaign targets many groups, including multiple ethnic and religious minorities, political dissidents, human rights activists, journalists, and former insiders accused of corruption. Second, it spans the full spectrum of tactics: from direct attacks like renditions, to co-opting other countries to detain and render exiles, to mobility controls, to threats from a distance like digital threats, spyware, and coercion by proxy. Third, the sheer breadth and global scale of the campaign is unparalleled. Freedom House’s conservative catalog of direct, physical attacks since 2014 covers 214 cases originating from China, far more than any other country.”[^12]


[^2]: Much of this section is based on the work of James Jiann Hua To in his book, Qiaowu: Extra-Territorial Policies for the Overseas Chinese (Leiden; Boston: Brill, 2014), as well as of Anne-Marie Brady and Alex Joske (specific citations below).
[^3]: Alex Joske, “Reorganizing the United Front Work Department: New Structures for a New Era of Diaspora and Religious Affairs Work,” The Jamestown Foundation, 9 May 2019, https://jamestown.org/program/reorganizing-the-united-front-work-department-new-structures-for-a-new-era-of-diaspora-and-religious-affairs-work/.
[^4]: Anne-Marie Brady, “Magic Weapons: China’s political influence activities under Xi Jinping,” Wilson Center, 18 Sept. 2017: 22, https://www.wilsoncenter.org/sites/default/files/media/documents/article/magic_weapons.pdf.
[^5]: Ibid.
[^6]: For example, in 2021, the US Department of State designated 14 Chinese state-run media outlets as “foreign missions'' and the US Department of Justice compelled privately-owned but CCP-loyalist Singtao operations in the US to register as a “foreign agent.” See “Designation of Additional Chinese Media Entities as Foreign Missions,” United States Department of State, 22 June 2020, https://2017-2021.state.gov/designation-of-additional-chinese-media-entities-as-foreign-missions/, and Lachlan Markay, “DOJ brands Chinese-owned U.S. newspaper a foreign agent,” Axios, 25 Aug 2021, https://www.axios.com/2021/08/25/doj-chinese-owned-sing-tao-newspaper-foreign-agent.
[^7]:  That is not to say that the 2008 Olympic torch relay was the first time that elements of the template were employed. Rather, 2008 represents the moment when those elements were consolidated. The CCP afterwards used its response to the Olympic torch relay as a model for dealing with overseas public events that included any element of opposition to its rule. 
[^8]:  James Jiann Hua To, Qiaowu: Extra-Territorial Policies for the Overseas Chinese (Leiden; Boston: Brill, 2014) 33.
[^9]: Alliance Canada Hong Kong, “National Security and Chinese State Influence: Pro-Hong Kong Democracy Events During August 16-19, 2019,” 17 Aug 2020, https://alliancecanadahk.com/report-national-security-chinese-state-influence-august-16-august-19-pro-hong-kong-democracy-events/.
[^10]: Lok Lee, Elsa Maishman, “Hong Kong protester dragged into Manchester Chinese consulate grounds and beaten up,” BBC, 17 Oct 2022, https://www.bbc.com/news/uk-63280519.
[^11]: Tibetan Centre for Human Rights and Democracy, “Chinese Transnational Repression of Diaspora Communities, 6 Feb 2024, https://tchrd.org/report-reveals-chinese-transnational-repression-spreading-fear-and-disempowering-exiled-tibetans/; Uyghur Human Rights Project and Oxus Society for Central Asian Affairs, “No Space Left to Run: China’s Transnational Repression of Uyghurs,” 24 June 2021, https://uhrp.org/report/no-space-left-to-run-chinas-transnational-repression-of-uyghurs/; Uyghur Human Rights Project and Oxus Society for Central Asian Affairs, “‘Your Family Will Suffer’: How China is Hacking, Surveilling, and Intimidating Uyghurs in Liberal Democracies,” 10 Nov 2021, https://uhrp.org/report/your-family-will-suffer-how-china-is-hacking-surveilling-and-intimidating-uyghurs-in-liberal-democracies/.
[^12]:  Freedom House, “China: Transnational Repression Origin Country Case Study,” 2021, https://freedomhouse.org/report/transnational-repression/china.
