---
title: Attacks on Protesters in San Francisco
slug: attacksonprotesters
order: 7
---

### Overview
Hundreds if not thousands of CCP supporters were mobilized and transported to San Francisco to “welcome” Xi Jinping. Some came from the Bay Area while others traveled from as far away as southern California; Portland, Oregon; Seattle; Philadelphia; and New York. It appears that their transport and accommodation were paid for. The mission of “welcoming Xi” was framed as a glorious patriotic duty. United front groups and their leaders were mobilized. Chinese students at universities in the Bay Area and in other areas of California were recruited through chapters of Chinese Students and Scholars Association with close ties to PRC consulates. 

It appears that the purpose of the mobilization of large numbers of CCP supporters was two-fold: firstly, to show strong support for Xi Jinping; and secondly, to obscure, neutralize and if possible eliminate any sign of opposition. The ultimate aim was to present a “sea of red” to the “great leader.” Toward that end, the large numbers were crucial. They were used to crowd out and drown out protesters. Among the large numbers, those charged with adopting more aggressive measures could blend in and hide. Ordinary items, especially flags and flagpoles, were deployed by CCP supporters as weapons against protesters. Flags were regularly used to cover protesters, both to prevent others from seeing them and to block views of assaults. Flagpoles were regularly used to stab and hit protesters. Protesters interviewed for this report frequently had the impression that actions of CCP supporters were orchestrated and coordinated to a high degree.

Over the course of the four days Xi Jinping was in San Francisco, November 14 to 17, 2023, this report documents 34 cases of harassment, intimidation and assault on protesters. These include threats, attempts to prevent protest, physical attacks and beatings, thefts of cell phones, and incidents of stalking. Other incidents of harassment, intimidation and assault were reported by the media and/or on social media and are mentioned in the report. The FBI’s definition of transnational repression—“when foreign governments stalk, intimidate, or assault people in the United States”—is certainly applicable in this instance, as all of those acts were perpetrated in San Francisco by people carrying out the agenda of the CCP.  

Significantly, most incidents of harassment, intimidation and assault occurred at locations where Xi Jinping was present or expected to be; in particular, the San Francisco International Airport on his arrival on November 14 and his departure on November 17; and three places in downtown San Francisco: the St Regis San Francisco hotel (hereafter, St Regis), where the Chinese delegation was reported to be staying; the Hyatt Regency hotel, where Xi attended a banquet held in his honor by US business groups; and the Moscone Center, venue of the APEC summit.

Generally, the actions taken by law enforcement authorities to prevent the attacks, to protect victims of the attacks, and to apprehend and hold accountable perpetrators of the attacks were inadequate. In some cases, police officers appear to have witnessed an attack but took no action. In other cases, protesters reported the attacks to police officers while they were ongoing or immediately after but police officers declined to take action. In still other cases, police officers attempted to separate the CCP supporters from the protesters, though they only did so in response to urgent requests from protesters. Where police continued to monitor the situation, the safety of the protesters improved; where they failed to do so, protesters were attacked in the very areas police had set up to protect them. While activists were threatened before Xi Jinping’s visit and law enforcement agencies were made aware of the threats, little to no preventive actions were taken. Police officers on the scene appeared to often have little awareness of the dynamics of what was happening before their eyes and appeared at times indifferent or even hostile and callous toward protesters’ appeals for protection. On only one occasion did anyone interviewed for this report witness a CCP supporter being taken into custody by the police for an aggressive action toward protesters, a man who tried to cross a police barricade to go toward protesters. The inadequate action by law enforcement authorities put protesters in the position of having to take their own precautions. Otherwise, some protesters interviewed for this report believed, things would have been much worse. Many protesters felt they were left to fend for themselves.  

The following section traces the incidents of harassment, intimidation and assault in chronological order:

- November 11: Threats to activists before Xi Jinping’s arrival
- November 12 to 14: Mobilization and transport of CCP supporters
- November 14: Xi Jinping’s arrival at the San Francisco International Airport; harassment and intimidation at the airport and along the expected route of his motorcade; an assault at the St Regis, where the Chinese delegation is reported to be staying
- November 15: Another assault at the St Regis; multiple attacks at the Hyatt Regency hotel, where a banquet for Xi Jinping is held
- November 16: Multiple attacks near the Moscone Center where Xi attends the APEC summit
- November 17: Multiple attacks at the San Francisco International Airport, where Xi Jinping departs

Interspersed with accounts of the events as they unfolded are identifications and profiles of united front figures and groups that to varying extents were associated with and/or involved in the harassment, intimidation and assaults of protesters.
